Product Interview Framework 1
Product Interview Framework
💡 Summarise or check in with the interviewer along the way as you move
through the stages in any type of question
Product vision and improvement type
question
Improve Whatsapp
1. Question the question
What is the purpose of doing this
What outputs do we expect
What are the metrics to measure the goals of the solution
Monetisation
Engagement
Retention
Acquisition
Define target customer segments for the solution
Age
Financial capacity
Users / Sellers / Buyers
Regions ( City Tier 1 / 2 / 3 )
2. Define the question
What is the exact feature in question here
what changes to the product are we looking at
Product Interview Framework 2
3. Find pain points
What is the struggle being solved and where does it stem from
4. Define the solution and product vision
5. Define the UX journey and flow of the proposed solution
6. Find the pitfalls and tradeoffs of the provided solution
💡 Analyse the effectiveness of any suggestions you make or ideas you bring up.
Great ideas with little to no effect or change won't be useful.
RCA Questions
Decrease in Revenue
Thorogh understanding of the question first ( what do you mean by cart additons)
External Factors and possibilities
Understanding the metric measurement tool, checking working of given tool
over a timespan and its accuracy
Understanding the platform (general or specific to app / website / ios or android
)
How is the change spaced out over time (gradual / sudden)
Macro economic impact (news / seasonal impact / pattern / disasters)
Narrowing down the scope or focusing on demographic features if the affect is
on any given customer segment, location, age group or other variable
News from other external factors (other competitors updates / product launches
or announcements)
Product Interview Framework 3
Internal Business or Product based factors that changed
Product and feature - backend / frontend / updates / design changes
Business - product campaigns / pricing / legal / marketing
Users — suppliers / consumers / merchants
User journey - glitches / bugs in the process
Out of control factors
💡 Always end each stage with a summary
Estimation Frameworks - Top Down
approach
Men fairness cream market in India
Starting with largest known metric
Break down on region / age segment /
Open End Product Visions Ideas
WhatsApp calls and videos improvements. Creating calls naturally like phone dial
pad to turn WhatsApp to a formal - informal way of communicating.
Creating calendar invites for meetings scheduled and google meet integration.
Chat quick reply prompts
Introduce -> Generating payment requests via what’s app
Product Interview Framework 4
chrome tab layout
STA vision
Add categories to Youtube subscription section and group based on type of creator
and content.
Separate playlists into self made and bookmarked / made by others
Instagram
Introduce -> Processing payments within the app instead of opening a browser
style window
Bundling of products into categories to simulate a shopping experience
Kill -> Storybook -> Coalition of multiple posts which is not discoverable when a
user scrolls neither is it shareable
💡 This is not an open ended question. Approach it like a problem statement.
How is the product solving a problem, what are the users targeted, how are
the features useful for the user and the company.
Culture fit questions
Thorough study of company website and product agenda. What is the message
behind the product.
Look for hints from the interviewer through the course of the interview.
Focus on the catchphrases and language, by speaking to other company
employees, throughout the interview process and other company resources.
Try some small talk to understand the behaviour better and also share your own
traits
verbal and visual signals, feedback - nods, eye rolls
Product Interview Framework 5
Technical PM Interview
How does google docs work
System architecture knowledge is extremely important
DSA, DBMS, OS, Network architecture and protocols fundamentals
General structure